---
title: Lesson Plan 3-1.docx
layout: post
author: lsupathwaypreengineering
permalink: /lesson-plan-3-1.docx/
source-id: 11W6nI0dt1riGz8guF1lXEOA43KJJboeHstCs8KA5SFE
published: true
---
**Course Title**: Introduction to Engineering (Dual Enroll: ENG1050)

**Unit**: 3 – Engineering Design

**Primary Subject Area and Grade Level:** 9-10

**Contact Information:**** **

**Lesson**** 3****-1**

**Overview:**

This lesson aims at introducing students to the engineering design process and involving them in creative problem solving.

**Expected Lesson Duration:**

30 to 60 minutes

**Next Generation Science Standard(s) Addressed:**

**Outcomes/Objectives:**

Learn how design impacts product performance.Understand the difference in an innovation and an invention

Identify and describe the parts of the engineering design process.

Use the engineering design process to solve the problem.Employ the use of data collection and analysis to help solve the problem

Explain the reasons for their selected designs and material choices.

**Lesson Procedure:**

* Introduction/Gain Attention

    * Students will turn in their lab report related to work ethic, communication, and teamwork.

    * The class will begin with a 5-7 minute long buzzer beater question/problem

* Content of Lesson

    * Students will listen to an interactive lecture about the engineering design process

* Closure and Preview

    * Students will follow the engineering design process to complete a small challenge.

**Relevance/Rationale/Explorations and Extensions:**

                                           	

The engineering design process is a highly involved, iterative set of steps that guide students through high-level problem solving. As an iterative process, the steps are often repeated in varying order. It is often compared to the scientific method, and tends to be as fluid as the method in its implementation. It is important to help students understand that, just like the scientific method, the engineering design process is not a cookie-cutter framework to be copied from each problem to the next. It is, instead, an iterative venture in which engineers approach the problem from multiple angles and frames of mind. 

**Assessment Criteria for Success:**

Content knowledge, student knowledge, and appropriate resources are aligned to instructional outcomes. Student learning will be assessed throughout the lesson via discussion based questions, presentations, lab report and quizzes. Students will have successfully met the outcomes when fundamental questions about the importance of work ethic, teamwork, and communication as it pertains to engineering can be observed through their own work and their peers' work.  

**Modifications/Accommodations and Access for All:**

**Reflections:**

To be completed upon the end of unit.

